Imagine you are running a maritime shipping company that transports oil. You have a fleet of tankers around the world and you are looking for customers who want their oil to be transported from one port to another. Currently, the possible opportunities to transport cargoes, i.e. the oil, are as presented in Figure The refinery at Fawley (near Southampton) is looking for the cheapest shipper to transport two cargoes: one to Dublin and one to Rotterdam. You and your main competitor both have a vessel in Southampton and you now need to decide what price you would offer the refinery for the transportation of either cargo. One option is to calculate how much it will cost you to transport either cargo and offer that as your price. Mind that, if you offer to transport both and you will get the contract for both you will have to come back to Southampton once you have dropped of the first. Another consideration is that you know that soon another company will be looking for a shipping company to transport cargo from Rotterdam to Felixstowe. Hence, if you would get the contract to transport the cargo from Fawley to Rotterdam and the contract to transport the cargo from Rotterdam to Felixstowe, you can directly continue with transporting cargoes without travelling empty from one port to another.

This example highlights the general setting of the tramp trade maritime shipping which we will consider in the labs as well as in the coursework. The labs will guide you to understand how this setting is reflected in our simulator MABLE and develop a simple shipping company agent that will bid for cargo opportunities and schedules the 3 transportation of those cargoes they win the contracts for. In any setting including the competition at the end of the coursework, all shipping companies will have the option to bid for cargo opportunities at cargo auctions at regular intervals. The shipping companies will have to decide how much to bid at these reverse second-price auctions considering their already existing transport commitments, the requirement to transport all won contracts, some knowledge of future auctions and knowledge of the competitors' fleets.

# A first look at Mable
MABLE is an agent-based maritime cargo transportation simulator written in python which only needs a few steps to be set up. The simulator allows to specify a setting with ports, a cargo market with one homogeneous continuous cargo, e.g. oil, and shipping companies. Once such a setting is specified and run, the simulator generates random cargo transportation opportunities that shipping companies can bid for to transport and then have to be transported from one port to another. For the labs and the coursework the world with the ports and the cargo market are already specified and all you need to do is define the behaviour of a shipping company.
